>> Kevin Powell: Next up
we have our typography.
There's two different fonts
that are being used in here,
we can get that from
the typography guides.
You'll see them both right here in
the list of the fonts being used,
there's Outfit-Bold and
Fira Sans-Regular, and
there's a bit of Fira Sans-Bold
in there as well.
So these are Google fonts just to make our
life a bit easier and a little bit faster.
For this project,
you can just come here and copy this and
bring it into your project.
This will link to the Google fonts for
both Fira Sans and
the Outfit that we'll be using with all
the font weights that you do need to have.
I'd say if you do want to do
a little bit extra on yourself,
I would actually recommend
self-hosting them.
Google Fonts makes it a lot
easier to download things now.
The priority for
them used to be doing it this way, but
self-hosting fonts tends to be
a little bit faster these days.
And you don't give any advantages of
caching cuz there's no cross-site
caching that we have.
But for today, I am just going to do
it the easy way for this project.
And if you wanna take that extra
step to self-host, by all means,
it can be a nice little
bonus that you could do, but
we could bring the two of
them in just like that.
Then in our style sheets, the two things
I would do is we can stay in our root
folder here, and
we can just get those two working.
So again, I like doing --ff, you'll
see a lot of people who are a lot of
times you'll get recommendations for
something,
whoops, that's not what I wanted to do,
but an ff-serif or an ff-sans-serif.
But we have a problem with this one,
serif is both of these fonts
are sans-serif fonts, which you often get.
Different namings that I've used
over the time has been base and
accent, just to separate the two of them.
Is one option if, depending on how
they're being used within the project.
In this case,
I think it's completely fine,
just to say this is our body font
style and this is our heading,
because the headings all use outfit and
the body text all uses Fira Sans.
So I'll be doing it this way,
if you have a different name
that you'd like to use you can.
And it just be "Fira Sans",
sans-serif as a simple
font stack there and
then here you can do "Outfit", sans-serif.
And the reason now that I prefix
things the way I do is because VS Code
makes it a lot easier to
use different styles.
So if I came here and I say my font
family, you don't actually have to
write the whole var and
then start writing everything out.
You can just do -- and then push ff, and
you're going to get a list
of your two font families.
So then you can choose from
the two that you want.
And then for the color, we can do the same
thing, we're gonna change this in a bit.
But for your color, you do --clr-b and
you just get a list of all the ones
that start with what you want.
So it just makes it easier if you're
trying to pick through colors having
a little prefix on there.
Then you get the list and
then you know which one from there
makes your life a little bit faster.
So for now, let's just do that so
we can see if it works.
And again, we can make this the 500 is our
lightest one, just so we can see that we
can see a bit of a brown color on
the page there and see that it's working.
Next up with our typography, one of
the fun things with Figma is when you get
the font sizes from it, most of the time
you're gonna be getting them in pixels.
We're gonna talk a little bit
about pixels versus other units.
The one time you don't wanna be
using pixels is for font sizes.
It's the only time I'm ever gonna
argue on what unit you should use.
And I would generally suggest using REM,
it's what all the font sizes
will be setting up now are.
Again, this just takes a little
bit of time to set up.
If you using some sort of preprocessor,
you can always come up with a calculator
or something else to do it.
The reason I'm saying that is this for
accessibility reasons.
If you set things up in pixels, if a user
is set a specific thing at their browser
level in pixels, it will overwrite it.
If you're doing it in M or REM,
it's going to adjust itself to
whatever the user preferences are.
And usually, if the users actually change
the font size in their preferences,
they've changed it because they
probably want the text to be bigger.
And that means maybe they have bad vision,
could be anything that's
usually probably what it is.
If they end up on your website and
you said 14 pixels, and
this text is really small, they might
zoom in, or they might just leave.
And if people have made those decisions,
we might as well respect them.
So by not having font sizes in pixels,
you're respecting those decisions.
So it does take a little bit of time,
and I'm not gonna once again, just for
the custom properties,
I am going to provide them for you.
Just so you don't have to do all
the calculations yourself on
getting the different font sizes.
It's just a little bit tedious and
we're not learning a ton by just
dividing everything by 16 along the way.
The one question that might come up on
that is the font size 62.5% thing you can
do on your HTML element.
You can do that,
it's sort of fallen out a favor from
everything I've seen these days.
And it's not that hard to work
in REM once you get used to it.
So I've gotten used to working that way,
and
it's how I'm going to be
doing things along the way.
But, ooh, sorry, before we go to there,
we do have the two different font
sizes that we have to deal with for
the small screens and our larger screens.
And this is really where custom
properties help us out a lot.
Because native custom properties in CSS
can be redefined within media queries, so
it just makes life really
easy to be able to do this.
There's also ways you can do fluid type
with Clamp, and other things like that,
that people really like.
I love that, if it's a personal project of
mine, where I'm just figuring out stuff on
my own, and designing it on my own,
I love doing that type of thing.
But when you have these types
of things we are set for
specific things from a Figma file,
it can be really hard to figure
out the calculations to get
fluid typography to work.
So if you wanna go for it, that's awesome,
if you can get it to work,
that's really good.
But I find it's not worth the headache, so
I tend to avoid it in
those types of situations.
So in my root, once again,
we have the colors that we're gonna have,
ooh, sorry, the font sizes we have here.
Same idea as before, of just going up and
down based on my numbering system for
the exact same reason.
But I'm as again, CSS vibes,
my base size is 400 instead of 500 colors,
500 is my middle font size,
my body's font size I always do is 400.
The reason I choose 400 is cuz usually you
don't have a lot of things smaller than
your body's font size.
You'll definitely have one
thing along the way, but
you'll have a lot of font
sizes that are bigger.
So all I'm doing here with those font
sizes is I've taken all the ones we have
here, switch them over to REM.
And just in order from biggest to smallest
font size 300 up to in this case,
I had to go to 1,000 cuz that's how
many different font sizes I had.
So we can copy that, And
bring that into here.
So I think I have my font families,
twice now, we can get rid of those.
And now I have my font sizes
just making sure it works,
we can just come here and say font-size.
And once again, you don't have to
rate the var out, you just do fs, so
you know it's font size, which is handy.
And then, let's just say, I don't know,
600, so that should actually, whoa,
it didn't auto-complete for
me there, okay.
All right we'll do it the long way.
--fs-600, save and my font got bigger or
we can do a 700 for now,
we can see it getting bigger so
we know it's working.
Then we need a media query because
this is for my small screen sizes.
When we get to larger screen sizes,
we do want these font sizes to get bigger.
If you were doing this the old way,
we would just come outside of here, make
a new root selector or a media query, and
then add another root selector in there.
But CSS has nesting now, and nesting is
awesome, and especially for media queries.
It's the best use case for
nesting, in my opinion.
So inside your selector,
you can just throw a media query now.
So inside the root selector, we can do it.
And I'm gonna use
the range syntax as well.
So width > is the same,
I'll just do it first, 760 pixels.
We'll talk about break points after.
760 is a bit of a magic number,
I'm just gonna use it for now,
if we need to adjust it, we will.
As far as the syntax I'm using here,
again, that's the range syntax for
a media query.
They have this in CSS now, which is
great cuz this used to be a min-width,
that would be the same thing.
min-width is always this weird thing cuz
you're putting the word min, but it means
bigger than, which is this weird cognitive
thing that you eventually get used to.
But at the beginning,
I always found it confusing, and
I always noticed people
had trouble with it.
And just saying width > 760,
is a lot easier,
you can do < if you want it the other way,
you can do <=, whoops, there we go.
The same all the different types of
operators, that you'd want or normally do.
So we can have our width > 760 and
then we can redefine those
font sizes wrong way.
So I can just take those
same font sizes again,
I just got all these from Figma,
I redefined them all.
And at the larger font sizes,
I decided what they should be.
So now, when this gets smaller,
that font size should decrease and
increase, there we go.
You can see it's from the small size, and
then it jumps up to a bigger
size at that larger viewport.
So I know that it's actually working.
A couple of really fast things
here before we move on.
You'll notice my font size, 900 and
1000 are the same at small screen sizes.
That's just that part that I talked about,
where at small screens they had to be
the same, but at larger screen sizes,
there's a difference
between the two of them.
This, for me, is the easiest way to do it,
some people don't necessarily
like having it that way.
So if you have a different approach you'd
like to take, by all means, go for it.
But I just said these
are both the same here, but
when we get to the larger screen size,
they're both bigger.
The other thing I did do is,
I'm redeclaring a few of them,
these two stay the same.
There's not really a point in having it.
So we could just do it this way and only
have the ones that are actually changing
at larger screen sizes,
that's perfectly fine.